# 📘 RAG (Retrieval Augmented Generation) using LangChain

## 🔹 What is a RAG?
RAG is a technique that combines **information retrieval** with **language generation**, where a model retrieves **relevant documents** from a knowledge base and then uses them as context to generate accurate and grounded responses.

Benefits of using RAG :
- Use of up-to-date information
- Better Privacy
- No limit of Document size

---

## 🔹 What are the main components of an RAG applications?
There are 4 main components that are required to build an RAG based appllication:

- ✅ **Document Loaders** → Used to ingest raw data from different sources (PDFs, websites, databases, APIs, etc.) into the system.
- ✅ **Text Splitters** → Break long documents into smaller, manageable chunks so embeddings and retrieval work effectively.
- ✅ **Vector Databases** → Store and index embeddings of text chunks for fast similarity search and retrieval.
- ✅ **Retrievers** → Query the vector database to fetch the most relevant chunks of information for a given user query.

---

## 🔹 Document Loaders
Document Loaders are the components responsible for getting your raw data into the framework so it can be processed (chunking, embedding, retrieval and generation). They act as data ingestion tools that read content from different sources and return it in a standard format (Document objects) which contain two main parts:

- **`Page Content`** → The actual text data  
- **`Metadata`** → Useful extra info (e.g., source name, file path, author, date)  

There are 4 main document loaders that are widely used in langchain and they are:

- **`1.TextLoader`** 

> It is an simple and commonly used document loader in langchain that reads plain text (.txt) file and converts them into a Langchain document objects. It is ideal for loading chat logs, scraped text, transcripts, code snippets, or any plain text data into langchain pipeline. However it only works with .txt files.

```python
from langchain_community.document_loaders import TextLoader

loader = TextLoader('filename.txt', encoding='utf-8')
docs = loader.load()
print(type(docs))
```

---